Breath
Feel your ribcage expanding and contracting as you breathe.
Count your breaths mentally. If you lose track, that's fine. Just start again.
Feel the sensation in your nostrils as you breathe.
Focus on breathing deeply and slowly.
Find a pain or discomfort in your body. Breathe into that spot. Feel the sensation change as you breathe in and out.
Focus on the feeling of your chest rising and falling as you breath.
Simply focus on your breath, ignoring everything else.

Sensation
Close your eyes, and feel the sensations in the bottom of your feet.
Find a pain or discomfort in your body. Gently rest your awareness on it. If you get distracted come back to it.
Focus intensely on the feeling of your lips.
What are you feeling in your torso? Pay close attention to the sensations for 20 seconds before answering.
What are you feeling in your forehead? Focus there.
What are you feeling in your eyes? Focus there.
What are you feeling in your nose? Focus there.
What are you feeling in your jaw? Focus there.

Thought
What is the next thought you are about to have?
Notice the next 5 thoughts you are about to have.
Who is observing the thought "I am"?
Can you observe the space in which thoughts are occurring?
Observe the space *in between* your thoughts.
With your eyes open, notice the next 10 thoughts.

See
Unfocus your eyes and notice everything that is green and blue in your environment.
Pick out an object and focus on it as intensely as you can. When thoughts arise, let them go and refocus on the object.
Lower your gaze, unfocus your eyes and pay attention to your entire visual field.
Pick up an object and stare at it for 20 seconds. Who is looking at it? Who is looking at the thought "I am"?
Close your eyes. Observe the patterns of light and dark on your eyelid.

Hear
Choose a repetitive sound in your environment. Close your eyes. Focus on the sound.
Close your eyes and listen to all the sounds around you.
Listen for the next "new" sound in your environment.
Rest your awareness on your ears. Keep your attention there as sounds come and go.
Listen for silence, for the absence of noise. Recognize the passing of other sounds.

Global
Unfocus your eyes. For 10 seconds, observe the sounds you hear. For 10 seconds, observe your visual field. Can you do both at the same time?
Close your eyes. For 10 seconds, observe the sounds you hear. For 10 seconds, feel the sensations in your body. Can you do both at the same time?
Close your eyes. For 10 seconds, observe your thoughts. For 10 seconds, feel the sensations in your body. Can you do both at the same time?
Look at an object in your environment. For 10 seconds, look at it. For 10 seconds, focus on the feeling of your breath. Can you do both at the same time?
With your eyes open, observe the next 5 thoughts. Then, for 10 seconds, look at an object in your environment. Can you do both at the same time?

Awareness of True Self
Who is aware of the thought "I am"?
Wait for the next thought to come. Are you that thought?
Look at something in your environment. As you look at it, ask who is looking.
Close your eyes, and notice the space around and between thoughts. Who is aware of that space?
Who are you? (Answer this question in your mind). Who is observing the thoughts which are responding to this question?
